Add blog post "Connect Multiple Repositories on Gitpod using Tailscale" (#1989)
gitpod-io/website: src/routes/blog/connect-multiple-repositories-gitpod-using-tailscale.md

image: header.png
slug: connect-multiple-repositories-gitpod-using-tailscale
subtitle:
teaserImage: header.png
title: Connect Multiple Repositories on Gitpod using Tailscale
---

<script context="module">
  export const prerender = true;
</script>

Gitpod helps you to set up secure and isolated cloud workspaces for your git repositories. However, modern applications are generally composed of multiple services that need to talk to each other. Codebases for these services can be present in different repositories.

One such example is server-side rendering. You generate a view by calling backend services on the frontend server instead of calling your API on a client device. If you develop on your local machine, you will have two repositories open in two IDE windows. Every service can communicate with each-other as they are all running on the same machine.

<center><img src="/images/blog/connect-multiple-repositories-gitpod-using-tailscale/locahost-ssr.png" width=450/></center>

In Gitpod, each workspace runs in a secure sandbox. You can expose ports so that only your browser can access them. However, the workspaces cannot communicate with one another.

> <center><img src="/images/blog/connect-multiple-repositories-gitpod-using-tailscale/gitpod-workspace-without-tailscale.png" width=600/></center>

Reviewer: Could you please add `alt`-attributes to the images, before publishing

> If you are developing single page applications (using frameworks such as React or Angular) where you interact with your API only through the browser. In that case, the current Gitpod setup will work out of the box.
> 
> If one of your services needs to call other services, like a server-side request setup. Your application now requires access to different Gitpod workspaces to fetch data to render the pages.
> 
> **Here Tailscale helps to establish a secure network tunnel between Gitpod workspaces.**

Reviewer 2: I feel this generalizes down a little too much. There's nothing special about React or Angular that makes them less likely to run into the issues that Tailscale solves, and it's fine for the server to call external services without Tailscale. The problem arises when communicating between workspaces directly

I do like emphasizing Gitpod working with the former strategy out of the box, and I think my original draft emphasized rendering too much which doesn't actually affect anything here, so I'll propose this medium-solution

```suggestion
As long as the browser is the only one interacting with the API, this will work with Gitpod out of the box. Many people develop single page applications and static sites where every network request is a client-side fetch. If this describes your development environment, then you don't need Tailscale.

But if your application has a server-side that needs to fetch data from another workspace, it becomes a networking problem. In order for the application server to send a request outside of its own workspace and into the API workspace, it needs a secure network tunnel between them.

**This is what Tailscale was made for.**
```

```yaml
tasks:
  - name: Restore Tailscale daemon
    command: |
      if [ -n "${TS_STATE_TAILSCALE_EXAMPLE}" ]; then
        # restore the tailscale state from gitpod user's env vars
        sudo mkdir -p /var/lib/tailscale
        echo "${TS_STATE_TAILSCALE_EXAMPLE}" | sudo tee /var/lib/tailscale/tailscaled.state > /dev/null
      fi
      sudo tailscaled
  - name: Connect to Tailscale
    command: |
      if [ -n "${TS_STATE_TAILSCALE_EXAMPLE}" ]; then
        sudo -E tailscale up
      else
        sudo -E tailscale up --hostname "gitpod-${GITPOD_GIT_USER_NAME// /-}-$(echo ${GITPOD_WORKSPACE_CONTEXT} | jq -r .repository.name)"
        # store the tailscale state into gitpod user
        gp env TS_STATE_TAILSCALE_EXAMPLE="$(sudo cat /var/lib/tailscale/tailscaled.state)"
      fi
      exit
```

## 2. Open a workspace for each repository

Commit the `gitpod.yml` to your repository.

Next time when you launch your workspace, your Gitpod terminal will give you a login link with a unique token. Once you’ve logged in, it will connect your workspace to your Tailscale account.

> Tailscale allows you to log in via GitHub, Google, Microsoft, or email. As long as you are logged in to the same organisation in each of your repositories, you will be able to send requests to one another on your Gitpod Workspaces.

Reviewer 2: Minor rephrase to fix a subject/object clash

```suggestion
Tailscale allows you to log in via GitHub, Google, Microsoft, or email. As long as you are logged in to the same organization in each of your repositories, your Gitpod workspaces will be able to send requests to each other.
```
